README.md, before:

# Alex's dotfiles
Development environment for macOS and any apt-based linux distro (Ubuntu, Debian, etc).
Using [ansible] for the whole installation, plus a small bootstrap script (`install.sh`).

This setup is tailored for my specific needs, **USE AT YOUR OWN RISK**.
I recommend understanding everything first, and then bulding a setup for your specific needs, over just forking this repo.

## Included roles
- base: Installs base packages (brew/apt). Installs [mise], that will be our tools version manager of choice. Also installs [Neslo Nerd Font].
- git: Sets up a minimal global gitconfig and gitignore. **WARNING**: this will override existing global gitconfig.
- zsh: Sets [zsh] as default shell, installs [oh-my-zsh] with [powerlevel10k] prompt/theme. Sets up [fzf] with [fd], and conditional [bat]/tree/file previews.
- erlang: Installs Erlang (using mise).
- elixir: Installs Elixir (using mise).
- ruby: Installs various Ruby versions and default gems (using mise).
- node: Installs Node versions and default npm packages (using mise).
- golang: Installs Go (using mise).

## Pre-requisites

### macOS
- Xcode Command Line Tools (includes git and other basic command line tools)
- Homebrew
```bash
xcode-select --install
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

### Linux
- git
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git
```

## Installation
Create and add ssh key to github (https://github.com/settings/ssh/new), then:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/alexrolopez/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles # or
git clone git@github.com:alexrolopez/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles

# 1st time run:
GIT_USER_NAME="My Name" GIT_USER_EMAIL="my_email@example.com" ~/.dotfiles/install.sh

# Subsequent times it is enough to run:
~/.dotfiles/install.sh
```

## Post-installation
You might need to restart your terminal to see the changes.

[Fira Code] and [Neslo Nerd Font] are installed.
It is recommended to set terminal font to Neslo Nerd Font, as powerlevel10k is already configured for that to be able to correctly display all info.

In Linux, you might need to alias `bat` and `fd` to `batcat` and `fdfind`, respectively.

## Inspiration
- https://medium.com/espinola-designs/manage-your-dotfiles-with-ansible-6dbedd5532bb (https://github.com/kespinola/dotfiles)
- https://snow-dev.com/posts/next-level-dotfiles-with-ansible.html 
- https://github.com/alexdesousa/dotfiles

[ansible]: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/index.html
[zsh]: https://zsh.sourceforge.io/
[oh-my-zsh]: https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh
[powerlevel10k]: https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k
[Neslo Nerd Font]: https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k/blob/master/font.md
[Fira Code]: https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode
[fzf]: https://github.com/junegunn/fzf
[fd]: https://github.com/sharkdp/fd
[bat]: https://github.com/sharkdp/bat
[mise]: https://mise.jdx.dev/

Commit message:

Switch from starship to powerlevel10k prompt

README.md, after:

# Alex's dotfiles
Development environment for macOS and any apt-based linux distro (Ubuntu, Debian, etc).
Using [ansible] for the whole installation, plus a small bootstrap script (`install.sh`).

This setup is tailored for my specific needs, **USE AT YOUR OWN RISK**.
I recommend understanding everything first, and then bulding a setup for your specific needs, over just forking this repo.

## Included roles
- base: Installs base packages (brew/apt). Installs [mise], that will be our tools version manager of choice.
- git: Sets up a minimal global gitconfig and gitignore. **WARNING**: this will override existing global gitconfig.
- zsh: Sets [zsh] as default shell, installs [oh-my-zsh] with [powerlevel10k] prompt/theme. Sets up [fzf] with [fd], and conditional [bat]/tree/file previews.
- erlang: Installs Erlang (using mise).
- elixir: Installs Elixir (using mise).
- ruby: Installs various Ruby versions and default gems (using mise).
- node: Installs Node versions and default npm packages (using mise).
- golang: Installs Go (using mise).

## Pre-requisites

### macOS
- Xcode Command Line Tools (includes git and other basic command line tools)
- Homebrew
```bash
xcode-select --install
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

### Linux
- git
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git
```

## Installation
Create and add ssh key to github (https://github.com/settings/ssh/new), then:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/alexrolopez/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles # or
git clone git@github.com:alexrolopez/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles

# 1st time run:
GIT_USER_NAME="My Name" GIT_USER_EMAIL="my_email@example.com" ~/.dotfiles/install.sh

# Subsequent times it is enough to run:
~/.dotfiles/install.sh
```

## Post-installation
You might need to restart your terminal to see the changes.

[Fira Code] nerd font is installed, it is recommended to use it as the terminal font, and to use a solarized color theme.

In Linux, you might need to alias `bat` and `fd` to `batcat` and `fdfind`, respectively.

## Inspiration
- https://medium.com/espinola-designs/manage-your-dotfiles-with-ansible-6dbedd5532bb (https://github.com/kespinola/dotfiles)
- https://snow-dev.com/posts/next-level-dotfiles-with-ansible.html 
- https://github.com/alexdesousa/dotfiles

[ansible]: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/index.html
[zsh]: https://zsh.sourceforge.io/
[oh-my-zsh]: https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh
[powerlevel10k]: https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k
[Fira Code]: https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode
[fzf]: https://github.com/junegunn/fzf
[fd]: https://github.com/sharkdp/fd
[bat]: https://github.com/sharkdp/bat
[mise]: https://mise.jdx.dev/
